---
title: My UCSB Experience
layout: post
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

I just graduated! I received a B.S. degree in Computing from the College of Creative Studies at UCSB less than a month ago. Starting this fall, I will still be at UCSB for at least one more year for a Master's degree, but i wanted to talk about my experience so far.

<!--more-->

First off, how did I end up at UCSB? It was one of the colleges I applied to and was accepted into during my senior year in high school. There were a few other colleges I was accepted into, but the main decision came down to choosing between UCLA and UCSB. I spent most of my senior year believing I would end up at UCLA. It appeared to be the better school on paper; it had a higher ranking, was arguably more prestigious, and it would probably lead to better job prospects. In the end, I made the decision to go to UCSB because of the [College of Creative Studies](https://ccs.ucsb.edu/){:target="_blank"}. 

I would not have known about CCS if it weren't for my sister. CCS is an small, accelerated program with a focus on research and other creative activities. It definitely seemed like a unique experience. What appealed to me the most was the small class sizes. I thought if I went to UCLA I would be in large lecture style classes, where the professor would not know my name at all. I'm not a social butterfly, so these small classes would definitely allow me to more easily make meaningful connections with my professors and classmates. In the end, I think I have met and befriended some amazing people that have helped me grow along the way (not saying this would not have happened at UCLA) and do not regret my decision. 

I did have fears that I made the wrong choice early in my college career. Was it dumb to come to this school that was known as a "party school" to many of my friends? I have realized now that it didn't really matter what school I ended up choosing. Each school offers its own perks and quirks. I want to go over some of the the things I enjoyed during my time (so far) UCSB, including experiences that may be unique to the school and those that aren't.

**1. Education**\\
First, I want to talk about my CCS experience in more detail. CCS allowed me to learn at my own pace. I sometimes found myself bored in certain classes before college, whether the class was too easy or the material was boring. Once I came to UCSB, I had this freedom to plunge deep into topics I was interested. Most of my lower division Computing courses had no tests or traditional letter grades and were more focused on learning and building. Computing 1L was a class where you simply came up with whatever project you want or topic you want to learn about, then go about your own journey alongside everyone else. Usually during classtime, classmates would present what they were working on or teach some topic they were knowledgeable about. I ended up starting a project to try to measure the speed of a tennis ball using a phone or laptop camera. I have worked on it on and off the past couple years, but haven't completed a polished product to this date. Hopefully I will have one soon. 

CCS also gave me the ability to take upper division courses at an accelerated pace, as there were no hard prerequisites for many of the CS classes in the College of Engineering (where we took upper division courses). Because of this, I was able to finish my degree in three years. I did apply to the BS/MS program, so I am going back for a fourth year to hopefully complete my Master's. 

That being said, I found a not insignificant number of the upper division CS courses I took to be relatively mediocre. There were some that I thoroughly enjoyed, but some just felt flat or even tedious at times. I don't know the quality of other CS departments' courses and curriculums, but I do believe some of the courses I took can be improved. In the end, I found I was able to get the most rewarding educational experience when I put effort in, even if some courses lacked pizzazz.

**2. Orgs**\\
Another aspect of UCSB that was a large part of my last three years was the organizations that I joined. One of those was Club Tennis. I didn't join until my second year since I had conflicts during my first year. This is still one of my biggest regrets at UCSB. I enjoyed going out to practice a couple nights a week and playing tennis with my friends. Some people enjoy going to the gym or reading to destress, and I enjoyed playing tennis. I also started competing more this year at USTA Tennis on Campus tournaments with the team which only made the experience more fun. I really enjoyed just spending time with the team, whether it was on the court or during secret santa gift exchanges. It was reminiscent of my high school tennis days.

Joining the SB Hacks organizing team was a different experience. It was definitely stressful at times. Our relatively small team would put in many hours to make sure that not only would our annual hackathon happen at all, but that it would also be a worthwhile experience for all the hackers that attended. But in the end, it was worth it. I have been a part of the team the past two hackathons, after attending as a hacker during my first year. Both events were a lot of work, but I have learned a lot about the computer science and tech community. 

**3. Location**\\
One cannot talk about UCSB without mentioning the location. It is literally on the beach, which makes the weather pretty nice most of the year. Although I didn't go to the beach as often as I probably should have, it was nice walking to class everyday with a view of the ocean. People would often walk a couple minutes to hang out or study at the beach, which is definitely not something you see on most campuses. If you are someone who is going to college soon and is considering going to or applying to UCSB, you should definitely visit!

**4. The People**\\
Finally, I think the best part of my experience at UCSB is the people that I have interacted with and built relationships. This includes professors, mentors, and other friends close to me. It's hard to imagine where I would be if I chose to go somewhere else and never met these people. Most of the professors I met were eager to talk with me about school, projects, and life in general. I could tell they cared about my education and well being. The graduate students that led discussion sections and those I talked to outside of class were all enthusiastic about teaching and willing to share their experiences. My friends, whether they are old or new, are some of the most important people in my life. I'm grateful for the impact that my girlfriend, classmates, teammates, and roommates have had on me, and they way they helped shape me into the person I am today. Whether they know it or not, many of the people I have interacted with on campus have influenced who I am today.

There have been some things I didn't mention, like how multiple fires and a pandemic have messed up almost half my quarters at UCSB, or that I crashed my bike and knocked a couple teeth out. But I don't want to continue rambling in this incohesive way for too long. Overall, I enjoyed my time at UCSB so far and look forward to my (hopefully) final year. I'll be sad to leave, but I know that I will not regret coming here. My college career definitely would have been different if I went to UCLA, but who knows if it would have been better or worse. I know now that in the grand scheme of things, the college you decide to go to doesn't matter as much as what you try to make of your college experience. If you have any questions about my experiences or want to learn more, feel free to reach out! 